>> Ifill: THE SYRIAN CIVIL WAR
RAGES ON, AS ASSAD'S PRIME
MINISTER SURVIVES A REPORTED
ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT IN THE
HEART OF DAMASCUS.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE
DEBATE WHETHER THE U.S. SHOULD
INTERVENE AND EXPLORE WHO THE
FIGHTERS ARE BEHIND THE
REBELLION.
>> Ifill: THEN, TAXING THE
INTERNET.
WE DISCUSS HOW CONGRESS MAY BE
CHANGING THE WAY WE PAY FOR THE
THINGS WE BUY.
>> Woodruff: BASKETBALL'S JASON
COLLINS BECOMES THE FIRST MALE
PRO ATHLETE STILL PLAYING ONE OF
THE BIG FOUR SPORTS TO COME OUT
AND SAY HE'S GAY.
WE ASSESS WHAT HIS ANNOUNCEMENT
MEANS FOR SEXUAL STEREOTYPES ON
AND OFF THE COURT.
>> Ifill: RAY SUAREZ REPORTS ON
TODAY'S GATHERINGF HO OLOCAUST
SURVIVORS AND THE VETERANS WHO
HELPED SAVE THEM, TO MARK THE
20th ANNIVERSARY OF THE U.S.
HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM.
>> Woodruff: OUR "DAILY
DOWNLOAD" LOOKS AT THE BOGUS
TWEET LAST WEEK THAT SENT THE
FINANCIAL MARKETS INTO A
MINUTES-LONG NOSEDIVE.
>> Ifill: AND HARI SREENIVASAN
EXPLORES "PANDORA'S LUNCHBOX"
WITH THE AUTHOR OF A NEW BOOK ON
PROCESSED FOODS.
>> TECHNOLOGY HAS MERGED WITH
FOOD PRODUCTION IN A WAY THAT
FEW OF US, I THINK REALIZE, BUT
I THE WAY OUR BODIES PROCESSION
FOOD, IT'S STUCK SOMEWHERE IN
THE STONEAGE.
>> Ifill: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
VOICED NEW CONCERNS ABOUT THE
SYRIAN WAR AND THE ALLEGED USE
OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS TO RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT PUTIN TODAY.
THEY SPOKE IN A PHONE CALL ON A
DAY WHEN THE SYRIAN PRIME
MINISTER NARROWLY MISSED BEING
KILLED BY A BOMB IN DAMASCUS.
>> THE BOMB BLAST RIPPED THROUGH
CARS AND BUSS IN THE SYRIAN
CAPITAL, SHATTERING WNDOIWS AND
SENDING THE WOUNDED TO THE
HOSPITAL.
>> I JUST HEARD A VERY LOUD
SOUND.
I DIDN'T LOOK AROUND.
I TRIED OPENING A DOOR BUT IT
WOULDN'T OPEN.
MY UNCLE, A PROFESSOR AT THE
UNIVERSITY, DIED BESIDE ME.
>> STATE TV SAID PRIME STER THE
INTENDED TARGET WAS UNHURT.
HE WAS LATER SEEN PRESIDING OVER
A MEETING OF ECONOMIC ADVISORS
WITHOUT ANY INDICATION OF WHEN
THE FOOTAGE WAS SHOT.
AND IN RECORDED COMMENTS HE
MENTIONED TODAY'S DATE BUT NOT
THE BOMBING.
INSTEAD THE STATE NEWS AGENCY
QUOTED HIM AS SAYING IT SHOWS
THE REBELS ARE BANKRUPT.
THERE HAVE BEEN OTHER HIGH
PROFILE ATTACKS IN DA DAMASCUS N
THE LAST YEAR.
TODAY'S CAME AMID RISING
TENSIONS ON A DIFFERENT FRONT.
U.S. CLAIMS THAT THE SYRIAN
REGIME TWICE LIKELY DEPLOYED
CHEMICAL WEAPONS IN RECENT
WEEKS.
>> IT'S GOING TO BECOME A FAILED
STATE ABOUT IT END OF THE YEAR.
IT'S FRAK TIEWRG ALONG SECTARIAN
ETHNIC LINES.
IT'S GOING TO BE AL QAEDA'S SAFE
HAVEN.
>> Reporter: ON SUNDAY SENATOR
GRAHAM OF SOUTH CAROLINA SAID
THE U.S. MUST TAKECTIO AN.
>> THERE'S NOTHING YOU CAN DO IN
SYRIA WITHOUT RISK BUT THE
GREATEST RISK SAY FAILED STATE
WITH CHEMICAL WEAPONS FALLING
INTO HANDS OF RADICAL ISLAMISTS
AND THEY ARE PORING INTO SYRIA.
>> Reporter: FELLOW REPUBLICAN
JOHN McCAIN CALLS FOR GIVING
MILITARY AID TO THE SYRIAN
REBELS.
AND HE SAID THERE MIGHT BE A
NEED FOR OUTSIDE FORCES BUT NOT
INVOLVING AMERICANS.
>> WE HAVE TO, AS AN
INTERNATIONAL GROUP, PLAN AND BE
READY OPERATIONALLY -- NOT JUST
PLAN BUT BE READY
PEDIATRICIANALLY TO --
OPERATIONALLY TO GO IN AND
SECURE THE AREAS.
WHATEVER THE COMPOSITION OF THAT
FORCE IS IS SOMETHING WE HAVE
TOLL LOOK AT CAREFULLY.
THE WORST THING THE UNITED
STATES COULD DO RIGHT NOW IS PUT
BOOTS ON THE GROUND IN SYRIA.
THAT WOULD TURN THE PEOPLE
AGAINST US.
>> Reporter: TODAY WHITE HOUSE
SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY TURNED
ASIDE TALK OF ACTION.
HE REPEATED THE ADMINISTRATION
WANTS TO MAKE SURE IT HAS ALL
THE FACTS.
>> WE HAVE ESTABLISHED WITH
VARYING DEGREES OF CONFIDENCE
THAT THERE HAVE BEEN INCIDENCES
OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS USED, SARIN
IN PARTICULAR, IN SEARAL.
WE'RE WORKING TO BUILD UPON THAT
EVIDENCE TO INCREASE THE AMOUNT
OF EVIDENCE TO FIND SPECIFICALLY
WHAT HAPPENED, WHAT OCCURRED,
WHO WAS RESPONSIBLE, AND BUILD
THAT CASE, IF YOU WILL.
>> Reporter: AND DEFENSE
SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL SAID THAT
ASSESSMENT IS ONGOING.
MEANWHILE, THE CIVIL WAR IN
SYRIA CONTINUES WITH MORE THAN
70,000 DEAD, AND NEARLY 1.5
MILLION SYRIAN REFUGEES IN
SURROUNDING COUNTRIES.
WHAT SHOULD THE U.S. DO ABOUT
THE WAR IN SYRIA?
WE GET TWO VIEWS.
MURHAF JOUEJATI IS THE CHAIRMAN
OF THE DAY AFTER PROJECT, AN
INDEPENDENT ORGANIZATION THAT
ADVISES THE SYRIAN NATIONAL
COUNCIL ON PLANS FOR A POST-
ASSAD GOVERNMENT.
HE WAS BORN IN SYRIA AND IS ALSO
A PROFESSOR OF MIDDLE EAST
STUDIES AT THE NATIONAL DEFENSE
UNIVERSITY.
AND JOSHUA LANDIS IS DIRECTOR OF
THE CENTER FOR MIDDLE EAST
STUDIES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
OKLAHOMA.
HE ALSO RUNS THE WEB SITE SYRIA
COMMENT.
TO BOTH OF YOU, WELCOME TO THE
"NEWSHOUR".
LET ME TURN TO YOU FIRST MURHOF
JOUEJATI, BEFORE WE TALK ABOUT
WHAT THE UNITED STATES SHOULD
DO, LET'S LOOK AT WHETHER THE
U.S. SHOULD GO IN.
ARE YOU CONVINCED THAT AT THIS
POINT THERE'S ENOUGH EVIDENCE TO
WARRANT FURTHER U.S.
INVOLVEMENT?
>> I THINK THERE'S OVERWHELMING
EVIDENCE.
THERE'S OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE
TAKE AWAY THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS
WE'RE RECENTLY TALKING ABOUT.
THERE'S OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE
THAT THIS DICTATOR IS OUT TO
KILL AS MANY SYRIAN OPPONENTS OF
HIS REGIME AS POSSIBLE.
WE'RE NOW INTO THE SECOND YEAR.
THERE ARE OVER 80,000 PEOPLE
THAT HAVE BEEN KILLED.
THERE ARE ABOUT FIVE MILLION
SYRIANS DISPLACED.
THAT'S A QUARTER OF THE
POPULATION.
SO, YES --
>> Woodruff: ON MORAL GROUNDS
ARE YOU SAYING --
>> IT'S NOT ONLY MORAL GROUNDS
ON STRATEGIC GROUNDS AS WELL.
IT'S IN THE BEST INTEREST OF THE
UNITED STATES TO BREAK THE AXIS
OF REGIME AND HEZBOLLAH.
FOR AMERICAN INTERESTS, I THINK
THE U.S. SHOULD DO MORE THAN IT
IS DOING.
>> Woodruff: JOSHUA LANDIS,
BOTH FOR MORAL REASONS AND AS WE
HEARD HIM SAY IN THE NATIONAL
INTEREST?
>> I DON'T THINK BELIEVE AMERICA
SHOULD GET TANGLED UP IN THIS.
I DON'T BELIEVE THIRD TIME IS A
CHARM.
IT'S A NATIONAL CIVIL WAR SYRIA
HAS SLIPPED INTO.
IT'S AN ETHIC AND SECTARIAN WAR.
AMERICA CANNOT SOLVE IT.
WE CANNOT STOP THIS PROCESS.
SYRIANS HAVE TO COME OUT THE
OTHER END OF THIS PROCESS AND
FIND OUT WHAT KIND OF NATION
THEY WANT TO BE.
EVERYBODY IS BLAMING OBAMA FOR
SAYING HE IS NOT A LEADER.
HE IS NOT GOING IN.
IT'S AMERICA'S FAULT FOR NOT
INTERVENING IMMEDIATELY AND
THAT'S WHY IT'S RADICALIZED.
BUT IN IRAQ WE INTERVENED AND IN
THREE SHORT WEEKS, WE DESTROYED
SADDAM HUSSEIN'S REGIME, ROTO
ROOTED THE MILITARY AND
DISSOLVED THE BAATH PARTY AND
THERE WAS RADICALIZATION THAT
WENT ON FOR YEARS AND STILL
GOING ON.
THERE ARE CAR BOMBS GOING OFF
EVERY DAY.
THE UNITED STATES SPENT $1
TRILLION IN IRAQ AND COULDN'T
GET THE OUTCOME IT WANTED.
>> Woodruff: HIS POINT IS --
>> NEITHER IN AFGHANISTAN.
IT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN IN
SYRIA.
THIS IS A CIVIL WAR IN AMERICA'S
CIVIL WAR, 750,000 AMERICANS
WERE KILLED IN A POPULATION OF
34 MILLION.
SYRIA'S 24M, 100,000 HAVE BEEN
KILLED SO FAR.
>> Woodruff: LET ME BRING IT
BACK --
>> IN PROCESS CANNOT BE SOLVED
BY AN OUTSIDE POWER.
>> Woodruff: HE IS BASICALLY
SAYING THE U.S. CANNOT FIX THIS.
>> HE IS BASICALLY WRONG.
ONE THIS IS NOT A CIVIL WAR.
IT'S A NATIONAL UPRISING AGAINST
ALMOST AFTER A CENTURY OF
DICTATORSHIP.
THE UNITED STATES CAN HELP SOLVE
THIS BY ASSISTING THIS FREE AND
DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT THAT HAS
RISEN IN SYRIA.
IN ORDER TO LEVEL THE PLAYING
FIELD, THE REGIME OF ASSAD IS
SUPPORTED BY IRAN, HEZBOLLAH AND
IRAQ AND THE REBELS HAVE NEXT TO
NOTHING.
IF THE SITUATION CONTINUES
WITHOUT U.S. ASSISTANCE, WHAT WE
HAVE IS THE INFILTRATION OF
RADICAL ELEMENTS INTO SYRIA AND
SHOULD THESE RADICAL ELEMENTS BE
VICTORIOUS THEY'LL BE IN CONTROL
OF CHEM CALL WEAPONS IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
>> Woodruff: WE'VE SEEN THE
INFILTRATION BY AL QAEDA AND
ISLAMIST GROUPS TO THE
OPERATION.
>> THE AMERICAN NO FLY ZONE IS
IS NOT GOING TO STOP AL QAEDA
FROM INFILTRATING.
IN THE NORTHEAST WHERE AL QAEDA
IS MOST ACTIVE THE ASSAD REGIME
PULLED OUT WITHIN THE FIRST
MONTH.
IT'S BEEN HARDLY ACTIVE.
AMERICAN NO FLY ZONE WOULD NOT
STOP THEM.
THEY ARE CRAWLING ALL OVER IRAQ.
NOW THEY ARE IN SYRIA.
ONLY AMERICAN BOOTS ON GROUND
GOING AFTER AQA
STOP THEM.
SYRIANS ARE JOINING ISLAMIST
FORCES BECAUSE THEY WANT TO
DESTROY THE ASSAD REGIME BECAUSE
MANY WANT AN ISLAMIC STATE.
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT
AMERICA CAN STOP.
WE TRIED TO GO TO AFGHANISTAN
AND STOP AFGHANIS FROM BEING
ISLAMIST AND BE MORE SECULAR.
IT'S FAILED.
>> Woodruff: MURHOF JOUEJATI,
LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT THE U.S.
WOULD DO IF IT DID GO N. JOSHA
LANDIS IS ARGUING -- NOBODY IS
ARGUING FOR BOOTS ON THE GROUND.
WHAT ABOUT THE NO-FLY ZONE?
>> NOBODY IS ARGUING FOR BOOTS
ON THE GROUND AND THE SYRIAN
OPPOSITION DOES NOT WANT
AMERICAN OR ANY OTHER BOOTS ON
THE GROUND.
THEY WANT SUPPORT IN
NEUTRALIZING ASSAD'S AIR FORCE.
HE IS USING FIGHTER JETS TO BOMB
CIVILIAN NEIGHBORHOODS AND USING
SCUD MISSILES TO BOMB THE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> Woodruff: WHAT COULD THE
U.S. DO?
>> AIR COVER, ESTABLISH A NO-FLY
ZONE, FOR EXAMPLE IN THE SOUTH
OF SYRIA, MUCH AS IT HAD DONE IN
THE NORTH OF IRAQ AND HERE.
LET ME REMIND OUR AMERICAN
AUDIENCE THAT ZERO AMERICAN
PILOTS HAVE BEEN KILLED IN THE
NO-FLY ZONE IN THE IRAQ -- SO IN
THE ABSENCE OF THIS AT LEAST --
AT LEAST -- THE MINIMUM TO
PROVIDE THE REBELS WITH
AMMUNITION FOR THEM TO DEFEND
THEIR FAMILIES AND CIVILIAN
BROTHERS AND SISTERS.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TAKE THAT
ONE AT AT TIME JOSHA LANDIS.
LET'S TAKE THIS QUESTION OF
SUPPLYING AMMUNITION AND
EQUIPMENT TO THE REBELS?
>> WE'RE ALREADY SUPPLYING.
WE'RE HELPING GET MUCH MORE
SOPHISTICATED ARMS TO THE REBELS
ALREADY.
ONE OF MAJOR PROBLEMS IS THE
REBELS -- THERE ARE OVER 11,000
MILITIAS IN SPEARA.
THE MODERATE REBELS THAT MAWTY
IS TALK D- -- THAT MURHOF
JOUEJATI IS TALKING ABOUT IS --
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IF WE GIVE
THEM WEAPONS THAT THEY COULD
SHARE THEM WITH AL QAEDA.
WHICH HAS BEEN HAPPENING.
THE U.S. CAN DO -- THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT CAN DO A LOT MORE TO
HELP THE OPPOSITION.
THE PROBLEM IS IS THE REAL
FIGHTING FORCES ON THE GROUND IN
SEARA, THE MOST EFFECTIVE FORCES
ARE THE ISLAMIST FRONT AND THE
AL QAEDA AFFILIATES.
AND THAT'S WHAT THE UNITED
STATES IS FRIGHTENED OF.
ISRAEL IS FRIGHTENED OF IT AND
THEY DON'T WANT US TO GIVE MORE
WEAPONS.
WE'RE IN A BIND.
>> Woodruff: WHAT WILL ABOUT
HIS EARLIER POINT THAT IF YOU
GIVE AMMUNITION, WEAPONS TO THE
REBELS, IT FALLS INTO THE HANDS
OF THE WRONG PEOPLE.
>> ONE, NOT NECESSARILY, AND
RECENTLY THE DECISION BY FRIENDS
OF SYRIA HAS BEEN TAKEN TO POUR
THE ASSISTANCE INTO THE STREAM
MILITARY COUNCIL WHICH WILL
CHANNEL IT TO THE GOOD GUYS
WITHIN THE SFA.
>> Woodruff: ARE YOU SAYING
YOU CAN MAKE A DISTINCTION?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THE U.S. KNOWS WHO THE GOOD GUYS
ARE AND WHO THE BAD GUYS ARE.
I DON'T KNOW WHY PROFESSOR
LANDIS WANTS TO EQUATE SYRIA
WITH IRAQ.
IN IRAQ IT WAS A FOREIGN
INTERVENTION.
IN SYRIA IT'S A NATIONAL
UPRISING AGAINST DICTATORSHIP.
THERE ARE CIVILIANS DIE TOGETHER
RATE OF 150 PER DAY.
AND THE LONGER WE WAIT, THE
LONGER THE RADICALS AND
ISLAMISTS ARE GOING TO JUMP N.
THE LONGER WE WAIT, THE WORSE
IT'S GOING TO BE NOT ONLY FOR
SYRIANS BUT ALSO FOR THE REGION
AND THE UNITED STATES.
>> Woodruff: JOSHUA LANDIS?
>> LOOK, THE AVERAGE COST OF
IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN FOR THE
AMERICAN -- EACH AMERICAN
HOUSEHOLD HAS BEEN $40,000 OF
DEBT FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD.
$1 TRILLION IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN.
WE HARDLY CHANGED THE OUTCOME.
WE DID CHANGE IT BECAUSE WE'VE
SPENT -- WE HAVE SPENT
$250,000,000 IN SYRIA.
ALMOST NOTHING.
WE COULD POUR IN MORE MONEY BUT
WHAT OUTCOME ARE WE GOING TO
GET?
IT'S A CIVIL WAR IT'S PITTING
TWO DIFFERENT SECTARIAN GROUPS
AGAINST EACH OTHER, AND THE
UNITED STATES F THEY GET IN --
IF THEY GET IN AND GET A SUNNI
ARAB WIN OVER THE MINORITIES
THERE COULD BE ETHNIC CLEANSING.
THERE IS GOING TO BE A LOT OF
THINGS THAT GO ON THAT WE DIDN'T
PLAN FOR AS HAD HAPPENED IN
OTHER COUNTRIES.
WE COULD PROVIDE A NO-FLY ZONE
BUT THAT IS FOR HUMANITARIAN
REASONS TO STOP THE KILLINGS.
FIT DOESN'T STOP, AS IT PROBABLY
WON'T, THEN THE MISSION CREEP IS
TREMENDOUS.
WE'LL HAVE TO GO HUNTING ASSAD
AND KILL HIM.
IN LIBYA IT TOOK TWO DAYS TO GO
FROM A NO-FLY ZONE TO KILL
QADDAFI ZONE.
WE'RE BELL MEDIATE AGE TOUGH
CIVIL WAR.
>> Woodruff: VERY BRIEF
RESPONSE.
IN AFGHANISTAN AND IRAQ IT WAS
COSTLY BECAUSE THERE WERE BOOTS
ON GROUND.
SYRIA DOES NOT WANT BOOTS ON THE
GROUND.
THEY WANT A PROTECTION FOR THE
FREE CIVILIAN ARMY TO BE
SUPPORTED TO COLLAPSE THE
MURDEROUS REGIME SO THE MIDDLE
EAST CAN SEE STABILITY AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: THE DEBATE GOODS
ON.
MURHOF JOUEJATI AND JOSHUA
NDILAS WE THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, TAXING ONLINE SALES;
COMING OUT IN THE N.B.A.;
REMEMBERING THE HOLOCAUST;
HACKING TWITTER; AND OPENING
PANDORA'S LUNCHBOX.
BUT FIRST, WITH THE OTHER NEWS
OF THE DAY, HERE'S HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: FIVE CAR BOMBS
EXPLODED IN SHIITE AREAS ACROSS
CENTER AND SOUTHERN IRAQ TODAY,
KILLING AT LEAST 36 PEOPLE.
IT WAS THE LATEST IN A WAVE OF
SECTARIAN VIOLENCE THAT'S LEFT
AT LEAST 218 DEAD SINCE LAST
TUESDAY.
MANGLED REMAINS OF THE VEHICLES
AND OTHER DEBRIS LITTERED
STREETS IN DIWANIYAH AND OTHER
TOWNS.
IN ADDITION TO THE DEAD, DOZENS
OF PEOPLE WERE WOUNDED.
AFGHAN PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI
HAS CONFIRMED THAT HIS NATIONAL
SECURITY TEAM RECEIVED PAYMENTS
FRM THOE C.I.A. FOR THE LAST TEN
YEARS.
THE "NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTED
TODAY THAT THE AGENCY DELIVERED
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN SUITCASES
AND EVEN PLASTIC BAGS IN A BID
TO GAIN INFLUENCE.
KARZAI SAID IT WAS ONLY A "SMALL
AMOUNT" OF MONEY, AND THAT IT
WENT TO CARE FOR THE WOUNDED AND
TO PAY FOR HOUSING.
THE "TIMES" REPORT SAID IN FACT,
THE MONEY HAS FUELED CORRUPTION
AND FUNDED WARLORDS.
IN BANGLADESH, RESCUERS ENDED
THE EFFORT TO FIND SURVIVORS OF
LAST WEEK'S EIGHT-STORY BUILDING
COLLAPSE.
THE DEATH STOOD AT 382, WITH
SOME 2,500 SURVIVORS.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JOHN
SPARKS OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
>> THIS MORNING, THE AUTHORITIES
GAVE UP.
CRAINS AND HEAVY CUTTING
EQUIPMENT WERE MOVED IN AND
VOLUNTEER RESCUERS TOLD TO GO.
LITTLE CHANCE NOW, SAY
OFFICIALS, OF FINDING ANYONE
LEFT ALIVE.
YET SIX DAYS AFTER THIS
CATASTROPHE THERE ARE HUNDREDS
OF PEOPLE, PERHAPS AS MANY AS
1,000, STILL UNACCOUNTED FOR.
YESTERDAY EVENING, RESCUE TEAMS
WERE GIVEN ONE LAST CHANCE TO
FIND SURVIVORS.
THE OBSTACLES WERE FEARSOME, THE
HEAT AND STENCH OF DECOMPOSING
BODIES OVERPOWERING BUT THEY
DESEENDED TO THE RUINS
NONETHELESS.
>> YOU CAN'T SEE ANYTHING INSIDE
BUT YOU CAN HEAR PEOPLE SHOUTING
FOR HELP.
IT'S SO DARK NO WIND, NO LIGHT.
>> Reporter: MR. ALI TOLD US
THEY WERE LOOKING FOR A WOMAN, A
DISTANT VOICE AMIDST THE RUBBLE
WETHI NK THERE'S ONLY ONE PERSON
ALIVE NOW AND WE'RE TRYING TO
HELP.
WE CAN HEAR HER BUT WE NEED MORE
TIMES.
>> Reporter: THEIR EFFORTS
WOULD BE IN VAIN.
RESCUERS STARTED A FIRE
ACCIDENTALLY AS THEY TRIED TO
CUT HER FREE.
TO SAVE THEMSELVES THEY WERE
FORCED TO RETREAT.
GOD KNOWS WHAT HAPPENED TO THE
GIRL, HE SAID.
THEY WEPT FOR THE ONE THEY
COULDN'T REACH.
THE OWNER OF THE BUILDING WAS
LED TO COURT TODAY DRESSED IN A
POLICE HELMET AND BULLET-PROOF
VEST.
AN ANGRY CROWD SHOUTED "HANG
HIM!
HANG HIM!
" IN AN INTERVIEWED CONDUCTED
THE DAY BEFORE THE DISASTER HE
SAID CRACKS IN HIS BUILDING WERE
NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT.
>> I SAW THEM, MY ENGINEER SAW
THEM BUT THEY ARE NOT CRACKS
JUST PLASTIC COMING OFF.
IT'S NOT RISKY AT ALL.
>> Reporter: THE FAMILY OF THE
MISSING HANG ON STILL WAITING AT
THE SITE WITH FAMILY PICTURES IN
HAND.
>> Sreenivasan: A MISSISSIPPI
MAN CHARGED WITH SENDING RICIN-
TAINTED LETTERS WAS ORDERED HELD
WITHOUT BOND TODAY, AT LEAST FOR
NOW.
JAMES EVERETT DUTSCHKE MADE HIS
FIRST APPEARANCE IN FEDERAL
COURT SINCE BEING ARRESTED ON
SATURDAY.
THE POISONED LETTERS WERE SENT
IN EARLY APRIL TO PRESIDENT
OBAMA, A U.S. SENATOR AND A
MISSISSIPPI JUDGE.
FEDERAL AGENTS ORIGINALLY
ARRESTED ANOTHER SUSPECT, BUT
DECIDED THEY HAD THE WRONG MAN
AND LET HIM GO.
IT HAS BEEN TWO WEEKS SINCE THE
BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING, AND THE
MOTHER OF THE SUSPECTS IS
DENYING THAT SHE OR HER SONS
PLAYED ANY ROLE.
ZUBEIDAT TSARNAEVA TOLD THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS THAT THE
CHARGES ARE ALL LIES.
THE FOCUS ON HER CAME AFTER
RUSSIAN AUTHORITIES REPORTED SHE
DISCUSSED JIHAD WITH HER ELDER
SON, TAMERLAN, IN A PHONE CALL.
IT WAS INTERCEPTED PRIOR TO THE
BOSTON ATTACK.
TSARNAEVA LIVED IN THE U.S. FOR
TEN YEARS UNTIL LAST FALL.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS NOMINATED
THE MAYOR OF CHARLOTTE, NORTH
CAROLINA, TO BE THE NEXT
SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION.
ANTHONY FOXX IS THE FIRST
AFRICAN AMERICAN NOMINEE TO BE
TAPPED FOR A CABINET SLOT IN THE
PRESIDENT'S SECOND TERM.
THE 41-YEAR-OLD DEMOCRAT PLEDGED
TODAY TO WORK WITH CONGRESS AND
STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TO
BOOST PUBLIC WORKS SPENDING AND
CREATE JOBS.
>> THERE'S NO SUCH THING AS A
DEMOCRATIC OR REPUBLICAN ROAD,
BRIDGE, PORT, AIRFIELD, OR RAIL
SYSTEM.
WE MUST WORK TOGETHER ACROSS
PARTY LINES TO ENHANCE THIS
NATION'S INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> Sreenivasan: IF CONFIRMED BY
THE SENATE, FOXX WILL SUCCEED
RAY LAHOOD, THE OUTGOING
SECRETARY.
LAHOOD WAS ONE OF A HANDFUL OF
REPUBLICANS SERVING IN THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
STATE FUNDING FOR PRE-SCHOOL
EDUCATION FELL LAST YEAR BY THE
MOST SINCE RECORDKEEPING BEGAN.
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY RESEARCHERS
REPORTED TODAY THAT MOST CUTS
WERE DUE TO LINGERING BUDGET
PROBLEMS CAUSED BY THE
RECESSION.
THEY ALSO SAID HALF A MILLION
STUDENTS ARE NOW ENROLLED IN
PRE-KINDERGARTEN PROGRAMS THAT
DO NOT MEET FEDERAL STANDARDS.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, CONSUMER
SPENDING AND PERSONAL INCOME
ROSE IN MARCH BY .2%.
THE INCREASES CAME DESPITE A
RETURN TO HIGHER PAYROLL TAXES
TO FUND SOCIAL SECURITY.
OVERALL, THE NEWS ENCOURAGED
WALL STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 106 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
14,818.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 27
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 3307.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO GWEN.
>> Ifill: SINCE THE EARLIEST
DAYS OF THE WEB, BUYING GOODS
ONLINE HAS OFTEN COME WITH ONE,
OFTEN NOT QUITE LEGAL, PE: NORK
SALES TAX.
BUT THAT MAY BE ABOUT TO CHANGE.
THE SENATE HAS CLEARED THE WAY
FOR A NEW LAW THAT WOULD ALLOW
STATES TO COLLECT TAXES ON
TRANSACTIONS CONDUCTED ACROSS
STATE LINES.
THE BILL EXEMPTS BUSINESSES
EARNING LESS THAN A MILLION
DOLLARS A YEAR.
AS IT STANDS NOW, STATES CAN
ONLY COLLECT TAXES FROM
BUSINESSES THAT HAVE A PHYSICAL
PRESENCE IN THEIR STATE.
WE LOOK AT WHAT'S AT STAKE IN
CONGRESS AND THE DEBATE
SURROUNDING THE CHANGE.
BRIAN BIERON IS WITH EBAY, WHICH
HAS ACTIVELY OPPOSED THE
LEGISLATION.
HE'S THE SENIOR DIRECTOR FOR
GLOBAL PUBLIC POLICY THERE.
AND RACHELLE BERNSTEIN IS A VICE
PRESIDENT AT THE NATIONAL RETAIL
FEDERATION, WHICH SUPPORTS THE
BILL.
RACHELLE BERNSTEIN, LET'S START
WITH THE BASICS, WHAT PERCENTAGE
OF GOODS, WOULD YOU SAY, OF
SALES ARE MADE ONLINE AT THIS
POINT?
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S A GROWING
PERCENTAGE.
IT'S NOT THAT LARGE.
I DON'T HAVE THAT EXACT NUMBER,
BUT WE DO KNOW IT HAS REALLY
GROWN EXPONENTIALLY OVERTIME.
WE KNOW THAT NUMBER IS SUPPOSED
TO DOUBLE IN THE NEXT SIX YEARS.
IF WE LOOK SALES TAX BASE OF THE
STATES IT WILL BE GREATLY ERODED
IF SOMETHING IS NOT DONE TO EVEN
OUT THE TAX BURDEN ON GOODS THAT
ARE PURCHASED FROM OUT OF STATE
AS WELL AS INSTATE.
>> Ifill: WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
A DIFFERENCE FROM PEOPLE WITH A
BRICK AND MORTAR AND PEOPLE LIKE
YOU AT eBAY WHO LOOK AT THIS
AND IT EXISTS ON THELINE.
>> IT'S A MARKETPLACE ON THE
INTERNET FOR RETAILERS.
WE HAVE THOUSANDS, TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF ENTREPRENEURS AND
SMALL BUSINESSES WHO USE THE
INTERNET ON eBAY IN OTHER
WAYS.
MANY OF THEM HAVE PRESENCE
THROUGH WAREHOUSE.
THE THING TO THINK ABOUT THAT
WHILE THE INTERNET RIGHT NOW IS
6% OF RETAIL.
IT'S NOT AN OVERWHELMING NUMBER
THAT THIS BILL TREATS SMALL
BUSINESSES IN A MUCH MORE
NEGATIVE WAY THAN IT TREATS
REALLY GIANT BUSINESSES.
>> Ifill: HOW?
>> WELL, THE GIANT BUSINESSES
TODAY BECAUSE THEY TEND TO BE IN
MORE PLACES, THE CURRENT LAW
ESSENTIALLY REQUIRES THEM TO
COLLECT AND LIVE UNDER THE LAWS
OF A LARGE NUMBER OF STATES.
SMALLER BUSINESSES, MANY OF WHOM
ARE USING THE INTERNET BUT MIGHT
BE IN STORE FRONTS, NO MATTER
HOW THEY SELL THINGS THEY ARE
ONLY REQUIRED TO COLLECT FOR ONE
STATE OR BE AUDITED OR LIVE
UNDER THE ENFORCEMENT OF ONE
STATE TAX COLLECTORS.
TO TAKE ANY BUSINESS WHEN THEY
ARE REALLY SMALL WHO TODAY IS
LIVING UNDER THE LAWS OF ONE
STATE AND WOULD ASK THEM TO LIVE
UNDER THE SAME SET OF LAWS THAT
GIANT BUSINESSES, BILLION DOLLAR
BUSINESSES WITH ARMIES OF
ACCOUNTANTS AND TAX LAWYERS,
TREATING THEM EXACTLY THE SAME
WE THINK WOULD BE UNFAIR.
IT'S NOT THAT WE OPPOSED IDEAS,
WE THINK THE BILLS SHOULD BE
REJECTED RIGHT NOW BECAUSE THEY
ARE NOT BALANCED AND DON'T TREAT
THE SMALL BUSINESSES IN THE
RIGHT WAY.
>> Ifill: RACHELLE BERNSTEIN?
>> I UNDERSTAND WHAT BRIAN IS
SAYING BUT WE HAVE SMALL
BUSINESSES, MOM AND POPS IN THE
COMMUNITY PAYING PROPERTY TAXES
AND EMPLOYING PEOPLE THERE AND
THEY SAY THERE'S COMPETITION
FROM THE INTERNET SELLERS.
>> Ifill: GIVE ME AN EXAMPLE
OF THAT.
>> WE HAVE -- ONE OF OUR MEMBERS
IN BALTIMORE OWNS A RUNNING SHOE
STORE.
JUST ONE STORE.
HE HAS A VERY WIDE SELECTION OF
DIFFERENT TYPES OF SHOES SO THAT
YOU CAN GO IN AND TRY EVERYTHING
ON AND FIGURE OUT EXACTLY WHICH
SHOES YOU WANT.
RUNNING SHOES ARE EXPENSIVE.
PEOPLE GO IN THERE AND THEY FIND
EXACTLY WHAT THEY WANT, MAYBE
ORDER TWO PAIRS.
THEY'LL BE AS BOLD AS TO IN THAT
STORE PULL OUT THE TELEPHONE AND
ORDER THE SHOES ONLINE AFTER
THEY'VE IDENTIFIED WHAT THEY
NEED.
>> Ifill: TO SAVE THE TAX?
>> TO SAVE THE TAXES.
THE OWNER OF THE STORE CAN'T
COMPETE WITH THAT.
WE HAVE GOT A PROBLEM HERE.
I HEAR WHAT BRIAN IS SAYING IN
TERMS OF BURDEN OF COLLECTING
TAXES FROM STATES YOU ARE NOT IN
BUT THE LEGISLATION SAID -- THAT
THE SENATE IS ABOUT TO PASS
INCLUDES REQUIRES THE STATES
THAT WANT TO COLLECT THE TAFLS
TO PROVIDE SOFTWARE TO THE
REMOTE SELLERS THAT CALCULATE
THE TAX, COLLECT IT AND REMITT
IT TO THE STATES ON BEHALF OF
SELLERS.
>> Ifill: YOU MADE THE POINT
THE SENATE IS ABOUT TO PASS.
THE SENATE COMMITTEE HAS CLEARED
THE WAY BUT IT STILL HAS TO GO
TO THE FULL SENATE AND THE
HOUSE.
WHY SHOULDN'T THAT HAPPEN?
>> STATES HAVE THE RIGHT TO
REQUIRE WHETHER IT'S THE
BUSINESSES OR THE CONSUMERS IN
THEIR STATE TO PAY.
STATES HAVE AUTHORITY TO COLLECT
THEIR TAXES.
IN FACT, THE INTERNET DOESN'T
CHANGE THAT.
>> Ifill: THEY HAVE THE
AUTHORITY BUT IT INVOLVES
INDIVIDUALS SAYING THIS IS HOW
MUCH I THINK I SPENT AN eBAY
LAST YEAR.
>> WHUR SHOPPING ON eBAY YOU
ARE SHOPPING WITH RETAILERS.
ON EBAY THEY ARE USUALLY SMALL
BUSINESSES.
IF YOU BUY ON THE INTERNET FROM
A BUSINESS IN YOUR STATE THE
SALES TAX IS COLLECTED.
THIS IS ABOUT REQUIRING
BUSINESSES THAT ARE FAR AWAY
FROM A STATE TO LIVE UNDER THAT
STATE'S LOVES -- LAWS.
RACHELLE MENTIONED SOFTWARE.
IF THAT WAS ALL IT TOOK THEN
GIANT MULTI-BILLION DOLLAR
BUSINESSES WOULDN'T HAVE THESE
TEAMS BECAUSE THEY WOULD REPLACE
IT WITH SOFTWARE.
THE REALITY IS IT'S MORE THAN
SOFTWARE.
THE CURRENT BILL WOULD MEAN THAT
ANY SMALL BUSINESS OVER A TINY
SIZE USING THE INTERNET TO SELL
COULD BE AUDITED AND TAX
ENFORCEMENT IN THE TAX COURTS OF
BUSINESSES -- STATES THOUSANDS
OF MILES AWAY.
>> Ifill: WE'LL TALK ABOUT THE
STATES.
RACHELLE BERNSTEIN, DO WE HAVE
ANY WAY OF KNOWING OR MEASURING
HOW MUCH MONEY STATES ARE LOSING
BY PEOPLE WHO BUY ACROSS STATE
LINES AND DON'T PAY THE TAX?
>> THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF STATE
LEGISLATURES SAID THE NUMBER IS
$23 BILLION THIS YEAR.
SO YES, THAT'S A LOT OF MONEY.
THE STATES RIGHT NOW ARE HURTING
FOR FUNDS.
THIS WOULD HELP THEM NOT HAVE TO
PASS NEW TAXES TO BE ABLE TO
COLLECT THE MONEY THAT IS
NEEDED.
THE OTHER THING IS THAT, AGAIN,
AS THE GROWTH OF THE INTERNET
GOES ON, IF THIS SITUATION ISN'T
CORRECTED EITHER STATE SALES
TAXES ARE GOING TO HAVE TO RISE
OR STATES ARE GOING TO HAVE TO
LOOK TO OTHER SOURCES OF REVENUE
INCREASING INCOME TAXES OR
WHATEVER TO BE ABLE TO COLLECT
THE REVENUE THEY ARE RELYING ON.
>> Ifill: THE BILL CALLS FOR
THE MILLION DOLLAR CUTOFF.
YOU ARE SAYING IT SHOULD BE
HIGHER.
>> WE'RE SAYING IT SHOULD BE
WE BELIEVE A NUMBER LIKE $10
HIGHER.
MILLION THAT IS PROPOSED IN THE
WE BELIEVE A NUMBER LIKE $10
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY TAX
MILLION THAT IS PROPOSED IN THE
ANALYSIS THEY RECOMMEND $10
DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY TAX
MILLION.
ANALYSIS THEY RECOMMEND $10
>> Ifill: IT'S IN THE A BIG
MILLION.
BUSINESS?
>> Ifill: IT'S IN THE A BIG
>> OH, NO THEY RECOMMEND, $10
BUSINESS?
MILLION IS THE NUMBER THEY USE.
>> OH, NO THEY RECOMMEND, $10
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN SMALL
MILLION IS THE NUMBER THEY USE.
BUSINESSES AND BIG BUSINESSES
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN SMALL
FOR TAX BILLS ACROSS THE BOARD.
BUSINESSES AND BIG BUSINESSES
THE CHAIRMAN OF HOUSE WAYS AND
FOR TAX BILLS ACROSS THE BOARD.
MEANS COMMITTEE, THE LEAD TAX
THE CHAIRMAN OF HOUSE WAYS AND
WRITER ON THE HOUSE SIDE OF THE
MEANS COMMITTEE, THE LEAD TAX
HILL SAID $10 MILLION IS A
WRITER ON THE HOUSE SIDE OF THE
STANDARD FOR HIM FOR DECIDING
HILL SAID $10 MILLION IS A
WHERE IT BECOMES A MID-SIZED
STANDARD FOR HIM FOR DECIDING
BUSINESS.
WHERE IT BECOMES A MID-SIZED
>> Ifill: WE KNOW WHAT THE
BUSINESS.
DEBATE OF TAXES IS LIKE ON
>> Ifill: WE KNOW WHAT THE
CAPITOL HILL.
DEBATE OF TAXES IS LIKE ON
WHY ISN'T THIS JUST A TAX
CAPITOL HILL.
INCREASE PURE AND SIM SNM.
WHY ISN'T THIS JUST A TAX
>> IT'S NOT A TAX INCREASE
INCREASE PURE AND SIM SNM.
BECAUSE IT'S DUE AND OWING.
>> IT'S NOT A TAX INCREASE
IT'S JUST, AS YOU SAID BEFORE,
BECAUSE IT'S DUE AND OWING.
IT'S UP TO THE CONSUMER TO REMIT
IT'S JUST, AS YOU SAID BEFORE,
IT.
IT'S UP TO THE CONSUMER TO REMIT
IF I COULD MAKE A COMMENT --
IT.
>> Ifill: WE REALLY --
IF I COULD MAKE A COMMENT --
>> 99% OF INTERNET RETAILERS
>> Ifill: WE REALLY --
HAVE LESS THAN $1 MILLION IN
>> 99% OF INTERNET RETAILERS
SALES WENCH THINK THE BALANCED
HAVE LESS THAN $1 MILLION IN
NUMBER IS TO RAISE THE SMALL
SALES WENCH THINK THE BALANCED
BUSINESS NUMBER TO A REALISTIC
NUMBER IS TO RAISE THE SMALL
LEVEL TO BALANCE THE INTEREST OF
BUSINESS NUMBER TO A REALISTIC
THE STATES OF REVENUE AND KEEP
LEVEL TO BALANCE THE INTEREST OF
THE INTERNET OPEN.
THE STATES OF REVENUE AND KEEP
>> Ifill: BRIAN BIERON AND
THE INTERNET OPEN.
RACHELLE BERNSTEIN, THANK YOU
>> Ifill: BRIAN BIERON AND
BOTH RY MVEUCH.
RACHELLE BERNSTEIN, THANK YOU
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
BOTH RY MVEUCH.
>> Woodruff: FOR THE FIRST TIME,
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AN ACTIVE MALE PLAYER IN THE
>> Woodruff: FOR THE FIRST TIME,
FOUR MAJOR PROFESSIONAL SPORTS
AN ACTIVE MALE PLAYER IN THE
TODAY ANNOUNCED PUBLICLY HE'S
FOUR MAJOR PROFESSIONAL SPORTS
GAY.
TODAY ANNOUNCED PUBLICLY HE'S
PRO BASKETBALL'S JASON COLLINS
GAY.
PUT IT THIS WAY:
PRO BASKETBALL'S JASON COLLINS
"I'M A 34-YEAR-OLD N.B.A.
PUT IT THIS WAY:
CENTER.
"I'M A 34-YEAR-OLD N.B.A.
I'M BLACK.
CENTER.
AND I'M GAY."
I'M BLACK.
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT HIS
AND I'M GAY."
DECISION AND THE REACTION.
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT HIS
>> Brown: THE NEWS CAME FORCE
DECISION AND THE REACTION.
IN COLLINS' OWN ACCOUNT ON
>> Brown: THE NEWS CAME FORCE
"SPORTS ILLUSTRATED"'S WEB SITE.
IN COLLINS' OWN ACCOUNT ON
IF I HAD MY WAY SOMEONE WOULD
"SPORTS ILLUSTRATED"'S WEB SITE.
HAVE ALREY ADDONE THIS.
IF I HAD MY WAY SOMEONE WOULD
NOBODY HAS SO I'M RISING MY
HAVE ALREY ADDONE THIS.
HAND.
NOBODY HAS SO I'M RISING MY
THE SEVEN FOOT COLLINS IS 34 AND
HAND.
A FREE AGENT.
THE SEVEN FOOT COLLINS IS 34 AND
HE PLAYED FOR THE WASHINGTON
A FREE AGENT.
WIZARD AND BOSTON CELTICSIS
HE PLAYED FOR THE WASHINGTON
SEASON, HIS 12th IN THE
WIZARD AND BOSTON CELTICSIS
LEAGUE.
SEASON, HIS 12th IN THE
IN HIS WRITTEN ACCOUNT HE
LEAGUE.
POINTED TO THIS MONTH'S ATTACK
IN HIS WRITTEN ACCOUNT HE
IN BOSTON SAYING IT REINFORCED
POINTED TO THIS MONTH'S ATTACK
THE NOTION THAT I SHOULDN'T WAIT
IN BOSTON SAYING IT REINFORCED
FOR THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF MY
THE NOTION THAT I SHOULDN'T WAIT
COMING OUT TO BE PERFECT.
FOR THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF MY
THINGS CAN CHANGE IN AN INSTANT
COMING OUT TO BE PERFECT.
TO WHY NOT LIVE TRUTHFULLY.
THINGS CAN CHANGE IN AN INSTANT
REACTION APPEARED POSITIVE.
TO WHY NOT LIVE TRUTHFULLY.
DOC RIVERS, COACH OF BOSTON
REACTION APPEARED POSITIVE.
CELTICS SAID IN A STATEMENT "I'M
DOC RIVERS, COACH OF BOSTON
EXTREMELY HAPPY AND PROUD OF
CELTICS SAID IN A STATEMENT "I'M
JASON COLLINS.
EXTREMELY HAPPY AND PROUD OF
HE IS A PRO'S PRO."
JASON COLLINS.
KOBE BRYANT TWEETED HIS
HE IS A PRO'S PRO."
ENCOURAGEMENT, "PROUD OF JASON
KOBE BRYANT TWEETED HIS
COLLINS, DON'T SUFFOCATE YOU ARE
ENCOURAGEMENT, "PROUD OF JASON
WHO YOU ARE BECAUSE OF IGNORANCE
COLLINS, DON'T SUFFOCATE YOU ARE
OF OTHERS."
WHO YOU ARE BECAUSE OF IGNORANCE
THE ISSUE HAS ARISEN IN OTHER
OF OTHERS."
SPORTS BEFORE.
THE ISSUE HAS ARISEN IN OTHER
THIS YEAR'S SUPER BOWL SAN FRIS
SPORTS BEFORE.
SYSCO 49ERS PLAYER SAID GAY
THIS YEAR'S SUPER BOWL SAN FRIS
ATHLETES WOULD NOT BE WELCOME IN
SYSCO 49ERS PLAYER SAID GAY
THLOCKE ER ROOM.
ATHLETES WOULD NOT BE WELCOME IN
INDEED BEFORE COLLINS THE ONLY
THLOCKE ER ROOM.
MALE ATHLETES TO COME OUT WERE
INDEED BEFORE COLLINS THE ONLY
ALREADY RETIRED WHILE WOMEN'S
MALE ATHLETES TO COME OUT WERE
SPORTS WERE MORE ACCEPTING.
ALREADY RETIRED WHILE WOMEN'S
BRIGHTNY GRINER, THE TOP PEOPLE
SPORTS WERE MORE ACCEPTING.
IN THE WNB DRAFT WA
BRIGHTNY GRINER, THE TOP PEOPLE
FOR MORE, WE TURN TO LZ
IN THE WNB DRAFT WA
GRANDERSON, A SPORTSWRITER AND
FOR MORE, WE TURN TO LZ
COLUMNIST FOR ESPN AND A CNN
GRANDERSON, A SPORTSWRITER AND
CONTRIBUTOR.
COLUMNIST FOR ESPN AND A CNN
WHYS THAT TAKE SON LONG IN
CONTRIBUTOR.
PROSPORTS AND WHY IS IT A BIG
WHYS THAT TAKE SON LONG IN
DEAL NOW?
PROSPORTS AND WHY IS IT A BIG
-- LX, ARE YOU HEAR -- L Z ARE
DEAL NOW?
YOU HEARING ME?
-- LX, ARE YOU HEAR -- L Z ARE
ALL RIGHT.
YOU HEARING ME?
WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO COME BACK
ALL RIGHT.
THIS TO THIS SOON.
WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO COME BACK
WE'VE LOT CONTACT WITH LZ
THIS TO THIS SOON.
GRANRSODEN.
WE'VE LOT CONTACT WITH LZ
WE'LL MOVE ON FOR NOW AND COME
GRANRSODEN.
BACK.
WE'LL MOVE ON FOR NOW AND COME
>> Ifill: IN WASHINGTON TODAY, A
BACK.
GROUP OF HOLOCAUST SURVIVORS
>> Ifill: IN WASHINGTON TODAY, A
RETURNED TO THE CAPITAL FOR A
GROUP OF HOLOCAUST SURVIVORS
DAY OF REMEMBRANCE, REMINDING
RETURNED TO THE CAPITAL FOR A
YOUNGER GENERATIONS OF PAST
DAY OF REMEMBRANCE, REMINDING
HORRORS AND OF FUTURE
YOUNGER GENERATIONS OF PAST
CHALLENGES.
HORRORS AND OF FUTURE
RAY SUAREZ REPORTS.
CHALLENGES.
>> SUAREZ: UNDER A STEADY RAIN
RAY SUAREZ REPORTS.
THOUSANDS OF CAME TO MARK THE
>> SUAREZ: UNDER A STEADY RAIN
20th ANNIVERSARY, THE
THOUSANDS OF CAME TO MARK THE
DEDICATION OF A MUSEUM BUILT AS
20th ANNIVERSARY, THE
A CONSTANT REMINDER OF ONE OF
DEDICATION OF A MUSEUM BUILT AS
HISTORY'S GREATEST CRIMES.
A CONSTANT REMINDER OF ONE OF
NAZI GERMANY'S MURDER OF JEWS.
HISTORY'S GREATEST CRIMES.
>> TIME IS AN ALL IMPORTANT --
NAZI GERMANY'S MURDER OF JEWS.
>> SUAREZ: BETWEEN 1933 AND 1945
>> TIME IS AN ALL IMPORTANT --
HITLER LED GERM DMI AND HIS
>> SUAREZ: BETWEEN 1933 AND 1945
COLLABATOORRS FIRST TO
HITLER LED GERM DMI AND HIS
SYSTEMATIC ALLY PERSECUTE AND
COLLABATOORRS FIRST TO
ELIMINATE EUROPEAN JEWERY.
SYSTEMATIC ALLY PERSECUTE AND
TODAY'S CEREMONY BROUGHT
ELIMINATE EUROPEAN JEWERY.
TOGETHER SURVIVORS AND MORE THAN
TODAY'S CEREMONY BROUGHT
100 MILITARY VETERANS WHO TOOK
TOGETHER SURVIVORS AND MORE THAN
PART IN LIBERATING EUROPE AND
100 MILITARY VETERANS WHO TOOK
THE DEATH CAMPS.
PART IN LIBERATING EUROPE AND
THERE PROBABLY WON'T BE TOO MANY
THE DEATH CAMPS.
MORE GATHERINGS LIKE THIS ONE.
THERE PROBABLY WON'T BE TOO MANY
IT'S ALMOST 70 YEARS SINCE VE
MORE GATHERINGS LIKE THIS ONE.
DAY.
IT'S ALMOST 70 YEARS SINCE VE
EVEN THOSE LIBERATED AS CHILDREN
DAY.
ARE IN THEIR 80s AND 90'S.
EVEN THOSE LIBERATED AS CHILDREN
NATALIE IS ONE OF THOSE
ARE IN THEIR 80s AND 90'S.
SURVIVORS FROM POLAND SHE
NATALIE IS ONE OF THOSE
REMEMBERS WHAT SHE SAW WHEN SHE
SURVIVORS FROM POLAND SHE
WAS THREE YEARS OLD.
REMEMBERS WHAT SHE SAW WHEN SHE
>> A LITTLE BABY WAS CRYING.
WAS THREE YEARS OLD.
AND THE GERMAN YELLED IN GERMAN
>> A LITTLE BABY WAS CRYING.
STOP THE BABY FROM CRYING.
AND THE GERMAN YELLED IN GERMAN
THAT'S WHAT HE YELLED, YOU KNOW.
STOP THE BABY FROM CRYING.
HOW DO YOU MAKE A BABY STOP
THAT'S WHAT HE YELLED, YOU KNOW.
CRYING.
HOW DO YOU MAKE A BABY STOP
SHE COULDN'T STOP THE BABY FROM
CRYING.
HE GRABBED THE BABY, SET THE
BABY DOWN AND THE BLOOD WAS
GUSHING ALL OVER.
THAT'S WHAT I SAW AT THREE YEARS
OLD.
>> SUAREZ: IT WAS ON ANOTHER
RAINY AND WINDY DAY IN 1993 THAT
PRESIDENT CLINTON AND NOBEL
LAUREATE ELIE WEISEL DEAD DATED
THE MUSEUM.
>> FOR THE DEAD AND THE LIVING
WE MUST BEAR WITNESS.
>> THIS MUSEUM IS NOT FOR THE
DEAD ALONE NOR EVEN FOR THE
SURVIVORS WHO HAVE BEEN SO
BEAUTIFULLY REPRESENTED.
IT IS PERHAPS MOST OF ALL FOR
THOSE OF US WHO WERE NOT THERE
AT ALL.
TO LEARN THE LESSONS, TO DEEPEN
OUR MEMORIES AND OUR HUMANITY,
AND TO TRANSMIT THESE LESSONS
FROM GENERATION TO GENERATION.
>> SUAREZ: NOW 20 YEARS LATER
UNDER A MASSIVE TENT THE SAME
TWO MEN CALLED ON THE WORLD TO
PREVENT FUTURE GENOCIDES FROM
HAPPENING.
>> YOU ARE NOW THE FLAG BEARERS.
IT'S IN YOUR MEMORY.
OUR MEMORY WILL LIVE IN YOURS.
REMEMBER THAT, YOUNG PEOPLE,
THAT YOU HAVE AN IDEAL, NOT ONLY
AN IDEA BUT IDEAL, THE IDEAL OF
SAVING WHATEVER THE PAST HAS TO
OFFER FOR THE FUTURE.
AND IT'S HEROS AND ALSO ITS
VICTIMS.
>> MAKE SURE THAT HAS DIRECT
MEMORIES FADE AWAY THAT THE
RECORDS, THE PICTURES, AND THE
STORIES NEVER DIE, TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE WILL ALWAYS BE ABLE TO
COME HERE TO REMIND US THAT NO
MATTER HOW SMART A PEOPLE ARE IF
YOU HAVE A HEAD WITHOUT A HEART,
YOU ARE NOT HUMAN.
>> SUAREZ: THE MUSEUM HAS SEEN
MORE THAN 35 MILLION PEOPLE PASS
THROUGH ITS DOORS SINCE IT
OPENED JUST OFF THE NATIONAL
MALL.
IT'S FULL OF AUDIO ADD VIDEO
TESTIMONIALS, A MODEL OF THE GAS
CHAMBER AT AUSCHWITZ, ARTIFACTS
FROM VICTIMS LIVES LIKE THE
STACK OF SHOES THEY TOOK OFF
BEFORE BEING PUT TO DEATH IN THE
GAS CHAMBERS AND THE FACES OF
THOSE KILLED IN THE GENOCIDE.
THE MUSEUMS DIRECTOR, SARAH
BLOOMFIELD, SAID THE CORE
MISSION IS TO EDUCATION BUT ALSO
ABOUT HELPING TO PREVENT FUTURE
GENOCIDES.
>> EVIL IS NOT AN IRRADICAL
DISEASE.
IT WILL BE HERE FOREVER.
OUR RESPONSIBILITY IS TO DO FOR
FUTURE VICTIMS OF GENOCIDE WHAT
THE WORLD FILED DO FOR THE JEWS
OF EUROPE IN THE 1930'S AND 194
50EZ.
>> SUAREZ: HENRY SAY SURVIVOR
AND A VETERAN.
HE FLED TO AMERICA FROM GERMANY
AS A TEENAGER AND ENDED UP GOING
BACK AS A YOUNG GI WHERE HE
WALKS THROUGH THE BARRACKS.
NOW HE TELLS SORTIE TO SCHOOL
CHILDREN.
>> THEY ARE -- HE TELLS HIS
STORY TO SCHOOL CHILDREN.
>> THEY TALK ABOUT HISTORY AND I
HOPE, SOMETHING I TOLD MY TWO
CHILDREN GROWING UP, I SAID
CAN'T YOU LOVE ONE ANOTHER?
IT'S A LOT EASIER THAN HATE.
AND IF THAT TRANSFORMED ITSELF
TO THE PEOPLE IN THIS WORLD TO
LOVE ONE ANOTHER, I THINK IT
WOULD BECOME A BETTER WORLD.
>> SUAREZ: THERE ARE OTHER
HOLOCAUST MEMORIALS AND MUSEUMS
AROUND THE WORLD LIKE IN ISRAEL
AND BERLIN'S MEMORIAL TBHILT
2004.
AND -- BUILT IN 2004.
AND JUST LAST WEEK CANADA
ANNOUNCED PLANS TO BUILD A
MEMORIAL IN OTTAWA, THE ONLY
FORMER ALLIED NATION WITHOUT
ONE.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN WATCH
VIDEOS
>> Ifill: YOU CAN WATCH VIDEOS
FROM TODAY'S CEREMONY ONLINE,
INCLUDING SPEECHES FROM
PRESIDENT CLINTON AND ELIE
WIESEL.
FIND THOSE ON OUR YOUTUBE PAGE.
>> FOR MORE NOW ON THE JASON
COLLINS STORE I'M JOINED BY LZ
GRANDERSON.
SPECIFICALLY FOR THE NONSPORTS
FANS, WHY WAS THIS TAKEN SO LONG
IN PROSPORTS AND WHY IS IT A BIG
DEAL NOW?
>> WELL, ONE OF THE REASON IT'S
TAKEN SO LONG IN PROFESSIONAL
SPORTS IS BECAUSE THERE'S A
SENSE IN THE LOCKERROOM THAT A
OPENLY GAY MALE PLAYER WOULD NOT
BE SAFE.
THAT HIS JOB WOULD BE IN
JEOPARDY AND HIS HEALTH COULD BE
AT RISK ESPECIALLY IF HE IS
PLAYING A COLLISION SPORT OR A
TEAM WOULDN'T SIGN HIM, CUT HIM
OR WAIVE HIM IF HE IS PLAYING
FOOTBALL.
THE THREAT OF YOUR LIVELIHOOD
AND HEALTH FOR MANY, MANY YEARS
WAS THE REASON WHY ATHLETES WERE
SO HESITANT TO COME OUT.
AS FAR AS IT BEING A BIG DEAL
NOW IT'S THE A BIG DEAL IN THE
SENSE IT'S A FIRST PLAYER BUT IF
YOU LOOK AT THE ARC OF THE LBGT
MOVEMENT NOT I'M NOT SURE IT'S
AS BIG IN OTHER WORDS THE
MOVEMENT HAS PROGRESSED TO THIS
IT'S EFFECTING A LARGER GROUP OF
PEOPLE THAN PERHAPS THE
SYMBOLISM OF ONE PLAYER IN THE
NBA.
>> Brown: YOU ARE SAYING THE
MOVEMENT IS BEYOND WHERE SPORTS
IS PERHAPS?
WHAT KIND OF REACTION IS IT
GETTING SO FAR IN THE WORLD OF
SPORTS AND WHAT KIND OF REACTION
MIGHT YOU EXPECT LATER ON IN THE
LOCKER ROOM?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, JASON IS SAY
FREE AGENT -- IS A FREE AGENT SO
HE DOESN'T HAVE A PARTICULAR
LOCKER ROOM TO PROPERTY TO.
THAT IS THE PIECE OF PUZZLE
WE'RE WAITING FOR, IF YOU WILL.
EVERYONE THAT HAS BEEN TWEETING
THURSDAY FAR, FOR THE MOST PART
HAVE BEEN SUPPORTIVE.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED JASON
COLLINS AND CONGRATULATED HIM.
WE KNOW MICHELLE OWE D OBAMA
TWEETED WE'VE GOT YOUR BACK.
NUMEROUS PLAYERS HAVE TWEETED IN
SUPPORT OF JASON.
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY WHERE
WE'RE IN THIS CONVERSATION WILL
BE DETERMINED ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT JASON IS RESIGNED.
IF HE IS SIGNED AS AN OPENLY GAY
PLAYER, THEN I THINK WE KNOW
WHERE WE ARE.
IF HE IS NOT SIGNED, WE HAVE
MUCH MORE QUESTIONS THAT NEEDS
TO BE ASKED AS WELL AS ANSWERED.
WAS HE NOT SIGNED BECAUSE HE IS
OPENLY GAY?
NOT A PARTICULARLY GREAT PLAYER?
WAS HE NOT SIGNED BECAUSE HE IS
BECAUSE HE IS 34?
NOT A PARTICULARLY GREAT PLAYER?
A LOT OF QUESTIONS TO BE
BECAUSE HE IS 34?
ANSWERED.
A LOT OF QUESTIONS TO BE
>> Brown: WHAT IS THE SENSE OF
ANSWERED.
WHERE THINGS STAND IN OTHER
>> Brown: WHAT IS THE SENSE OF
SPORTS BEYOND BASKETBALL,
WHERE THINGS STAND IN OTHER
FOOTBALL, A FAMOUSLY MACHO
SPORTS BEYOND BASKETBALL,
ENVIRONMENT, RIGHT?
FOOTBALL, A FAMOUSLY MACHO
LIKE TO THINK OF MYSELF AS
ENVIRONMENT, RIGHT?
FAIRLY MACHO.
LIKE TO THINK OF MYSELF AS
I DON'T LIKE TO THINK.
FAIRLY MACHO.
>> Brown: I CERTAINLY DIDN'T
I DON'T LIKE TO THINK.
MEAN THAT?
>> Brown: I CERTAINLY DIDN'T
I JUST MENTS THE REPUTATION.
MEAN THAT?
>> NO, NO, NO.
I JUST MENTS THE REPUTATION.
PEOPLE USUALLY PREFIX THE
>> NO, NO, NO.
CONVERSATION ABOUT PROFESSIONAL
PEOPLE USUALLY PREFIX THE
SPORTS BEING A MACHO
CONVERSATION ABOUT PROFESSIONAL
ENVIRONMENT.
SPORTS BEING A MACHO
WHATEVER WE DEEM AS
ENVIRONMENT.
STEREOTYPICALLY MACHO, THE MALE
WHATEVER WE DEEM AS
ATHLETES THAT HAVE COME OUT
STEREOTYPICALLY MACHO, THE MALE
THURSDAY FAR FIT THAT BILL.
ATHLETES THAT HAVE COME OUT
JOHN AMICI PLAYED A BIG POWER
THURSDAY FAR FIT THAT BILL.
FORWARD POSITION.
JOHN AMICI PLAYED A BIG POWER
I WOULD THINK IT'S MACHO.
FORWARD POSITION.
HE'S A BRING STRONG GUY.
I WOULD THINK IT'S MACHO.
A KILLER ON THE FIELD WAS DAVE
HE'S A BRING STRONG GUY.
COUPE, PRETTY MACHO GUY.
A KILLER ON THE FIELD WAS DAVE
THE CONVERSATION IS REFRAMING
COUPE, PRETTY MACHO GUY.
THE WAY WE LOOK AT IT IN ITS
THE CONVERSATION IS REFRAMING
ENTIRETY.
THE WAY WE LOOK AT IT IN ITS
THAT'S THE REASON I GAVE A PUSH
ENTIRETY.
BACK.
THAT'S THE REASON I GAVE A PUSH
>> Brown: I TAKE THE PUSH.
BACK.
WELL TAKEN.
>> Brown: I TAKE THE PUSH.
WHAT IS THE SITUATION IN OTHER
WELL TAKEN.
SPORTS?
WHAT IS THE SITUATION IN OTHER
SIMILAR TO WHAT YOU SEE IN
SPORTS?
BASKETBALL?
SIMILAR TO WHAT YOU SEE IN
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I DO KNOW
BASKETBALL?
THAT ALL THESE LEAGUES HAVE
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I DO KNOW
WORKED WITH OR ARE STILL WORKING
THAT ALL THESE LEAGUES HAVE
WITH SOME NATIONAL ORGANIZATION
WORKED WITH OR ARE STILL WORKING
ADDRESSING HOMOPHOBIA IN SPORTS.
WITH SOME NATIONAL ORGANIZATION
THE NBA HAS BEEN WORKING WITH
ADDRESSING HOMOPHOBIA IN SPORTS.
THE GAY AND LESBIAN EDUCATION
THE NBA HAS BEEN WORKING WITH
NETWORK FOR YEARS PRIOR TO JASON
THE GAY AND LESBIAN EDUCATION
COLLINS COMING OUT, PRIOR TO
NETWORK FOR YEARS PRIOR TO JASON
KOBE BRYANT BEING FINED LAST
COLLINS COMING OUT, PRIOR TO
YEAR FOR UTTERING A GAY SLUR
KOBE BRYANT BEING FINED LAST
INADVERTENTLY ON TELEVISION.
YEAR FOR UTTERING A GAY SLUR
THE NFL HAS BEEN WORKING WITH AN
INADVERTENTLY ON TELEVISION.
ORGANIZATION TO ADDRESS
THE NFL HAS BEEN WORKING WITH AN
HOMOPHOBIA IN SPORTS.
ORGANIZATION TO ADDRESS
THE NHL A COUPLE WEEKS AGO
HOMOPHOBIA IN SPORTS.
ANNOUNCED WORKING WITH AN
THE NHL A COUPLE WEEKS AGO
ORGANIZATION TO MAKE THINGS
ANNOUNCED WORKING WITH AN
BETTER FOR AN OPENLY GAY ATHLETE
ORGANIZATION TO MAKE THINGS
IN ITS SPORT.
BETTER FOR AN OPENLY GAY ATHLETE
I WOULD THINK AT LEAST FROM AN
IN ITS SPORT.
EXECUTIVE LEVEL, A LOT HAS BEEN
I WOULD THINK AT LEAST FROM AN
DONE TO ADDRESS THIS ISSUE.
EXECUTIVE LEVEL, A LOT HAS BEEN
AND TO MAKE THINGS MORE
DONE TO ADDRESS THIS ISSUE.
COMFORTABLE OR MORE TOLERANT FOR
AND TO MAKE THINGS MORE
AN OPENLY GAY PLAYER TO EXIST IN
COMFORTABLE OR MORE TOLERANT FOR
THE LOCKER ROOM.
AN OPENLY GAY PLAYER TO EXIST IN
BUT WITH THAT BEING SAID, NO
THE LOCKER ROOM.
LOCKER ROOM HAS WHAT HAS
BUT WITH THAT BEING SAID, NO
HAPPENED IN THE NBA?
LOCKER ROOM HAS WHAT HAS
AND IF JASON IS RESIGNED, THE
HAPPENED IN THE NBA?
OTHER LEAGUES HAVE A LOT OF
AND IF JASON IS RESIGNED, THE
CATCHING UP TO DO.
OTHER LEAGUES HAVE A LOT OF
>> Brown: LZ GRANDERSON ESPN
CATCHING UP TO DO.
COLUMNIST.
>> Brown: LZ GRANDERSON ESPN
THANKS SO MUCH.
COLUMNIST.
>> THANK YOU.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Brown: ONLINE WE HAVE
>> THANK YOU.
REACTION FROM THE ATHLETES FROM
>> Brown: ONLINE WE HAVE
THE NBA AND OTHER MAJOR SPORTS
REACTION FROM THE ATHLETES FROM
LEAGUES.
THE NBA AND OTHER MAJOR SPORTS
THAT'S ON THE RUNDOWN.
LEAGUES.
>> Woodruff: NOW, OUR LOOK AT
THAT'S ON THE RUNDOWN.
HOW SOCIAL MEDIA AFFECTS AND
>> Woodruff: NOW, OUR LOOK AT
INFECTS THE WORLD WE LIVE IN.
HOW SOCIAL MEDIA AFFECTS AND
NEWSHOUR POLITICAL EDITOR
INFECTS THE WORLD WE LIVE IN.
CHRISTINA BELLANTONI IS HERE
NEWSHOUR POLITICAL EDITOR
WITH THE DAILY DOWNLOAD TEAM.
CHRISTINA BELLANTONI IS HERE
>> Reporter: WE LEARNED LAST
WITH THE DAILY DOWNLOAD TEAM.
WEEK THAT A TWEET CAN SEND
>> Reporter: WE LEARNED LAST
MARKETS CRASHING IN A MATTER OF
WEEK THAT A TWEET CAN SEND
MINUTES.
MARKETS CRASHING IN A MATTER OF
HOW CAN NEWS OUTLETS PROTECT
MINUTES.
THEMSELVES FROM HACK?
HOW CAN NEWS OUTLETS PROTECT
AND HOW DIFFICULT IS IT TO STOP
THEMSELVES FROM HACK?
SOMETHING ONCE IT GTHE ISSUE WIO
AND HOW DIFFICULT IS IT TO STOP
JOURNALISTS FROM THE WEB SITE
SOMETHING ONCE IT GTHE ISSUE WIO
DAILY DOWNLOAD.
JOURNALISTS FROM THE WEB SITE
LAUREN AROUND -- ASH BURN AND
DAILY DOWNLOAD.
HOWIE KURTZ.
LAUREN AROUND -- ASH BURN AND
THANKS FOR BEING HERE.
HOWIE KURTZ.
LAST TUESDAY WE SAW THAT THE
THANKS FOR BEING HERE.
ASSOCIATED PRESS SENT OUT THIS
LAST TUESDAY WE SAW THAT THE
TWEET TO 1.9 MILLION FOLLOWERS.
ASSOCIATED PRESS SENT OUT THIS
WHAT EXACTLY HAPPENED HERE?
TWEET TO 1.9 MILLION FOLLOWERS.
>> THE TWEET AS YOU CAN SEE HERE
WHAT EXACTLY HAPPENED HERE?
BREAK TWO EXPLOSIONS IN THE
>> THE TWEET AS YOU CAN SEE HERE
WHITE HOUSE AND BARACK OBAMA IS
BREAK TWO EXPLOSIONS IN THE
INJURED.
WHITE HOUSE AND BARACK OBAMA IS
EVERYBODY WENT CRAZY ONLINE.
INJURED.
IT WAS RETWEETED 1800 TIMES TO
EVERYBODY WENT CRAZY ONLINE.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS WITH ALMOST
IT WAS RETWEETED 1800 TIMES TO
TWO MILLION FOLLOWERS.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS WITH ALMOST
AFTER THAT WE SAW A DROP IN
TWO MILLION FOLLOWERS.
STANDARD & POOR'S AND THE STOCK
AFTER THAT WE SAW A DROP IN
MARKET.
STANDARD & POOR'S AND THE STOCK
>> $136 BILLION LOST.
MARKET.
MOST AFTER THIS REBOUNDED IN THE
>> $136 BILLION LOST.
SEVEN MINUTES IT TOOK FOR PEOPLE
MOST AFTER THIS REBOUNDED IN THE
LIKE ME TO START RUSHING OVER TO
SEVEN MINUTES IT TOOK FOR PEOPLE
THE WHITE HOUSE AND FIND OUT
LIKE ME TO START RUSHING OVER TO
THERE WERE NO EXPLOSIONS AND FOR
THE WHITE HOUSE AND FIND OUT
THE TWITTER TO SUSPEND THE
THERE WERE NO EXPLOSIONS AND FOR
ASSOCIATED ACCOUNT, ACCOUNT
THE TWITTER TO SUSPEND THE
WHICH HAD BEEN HACKED WITH WE
ASSOCIATED ACCOUNT, ACCOUNT
SUSPECTED.
WHICH HAD BEEN HACKED WITH WE
>> AND WHICH THE AP POUT A
SUSPECTED.
CORRECTION SAYING IT DID NOT
>> AND WHICH THE AP POUT A
HAPPEN.
CORRECTION SAYING IT DID NOT
>> THEY SAID THIS SAY BOGUS AP
HAPPEN.
TWEET, WHICH I THOUGHT WAS VERY
>> THEY SAID THIS SAY BOGUS AP
SHORT AND TIGHT.
TWEET, WHICH I THOUGHT WAS VERY
>> THEY HAD SOME INDICATION THAT
SHORT AND TIGHT.
SOMEBODY WAS TRYING TO BREAK
>> THEY HAD SOME INDICATION THAT
INTO THE SYSTEM.
SOMEBODY WAS TRYING TO BREAK
>> THEY DID EARLIER AND THEY
INTO THE SYSTEM.
SENT OUT A WARNING TO ALL OF THE
>> THEY DID EARLIER AND THEY
2,000 JOURNALISTS PLUS THE
SENT OUT A WARNING TO ALL OF THE
PEOPLE WORKING AT THE AP SAYING
2,000 JOURNALISTS PLUS THE
SOMEONE IS TRYING TO PHISH OR
PEOPLE WORKING AT THE AP SAYING
GET INTO THE SYSTEM DO IN THE
SOMEONE IS TRYING TO PHISH OR
CLICK.
GET INTO THE SYSTEM DO IN THE
>> THE PHISHING SCAMS THEY SEND
CLICK.
A LINK THAT LOOKS LIKE AN
>> THE PHISHING SCAMS THEY SEND
ARTICLE.
A LINK THAT LOOKS LIKE AN
IT'S ASKING FOR DATA.
ARTICLE.
>> EXPOSES YOUR PASSWORD.
IT'S ASKING FOR DATA.
>> WHAT WITH UNDERSCORES IS THE
>> EXPOSES YOUR PASSWORD.
WAY TWITTER HAS BECOME THREADED
>> WHAT WITH UNDERSCORES IS THE
TO THE FABRIC OF OUR SOCIETY.
WAY TWITTER HAS BECOME THREADED
IT'S OKAY, ACCORDING TO THE
TO THE FABRIC OF OUR SOCIETY.
GOVERNMENT, FOR COMPANIES TO
IT'S OKAY, ACCORDING TO THE
DELIVER MARKET MOVING
GOVERNMENT, FOR COMPANIES TO
INFORMATION THROUGH THE TWITTER
DELIVER MARKET MOVING
FEEDS.
INFORMATION THROUGH THE TWITTER
BLOOMBERG NEWS TERMINALS INCLUDE
FEEDS.
TWITTER.
BLOOMBERG NEWS TERMINALS INCLUDE
IF THERE'S A HACK OR FALSE
TWITTER.
TWEET.
IF THERE'S A HACK OR FALSE
WE SAW THIS WITH CHINA.
TWEET.
>> AND "60 MINUTES" AS WELL.
WE SAW THIS WITH CHINA.
>> IT'S ALMOST BECOMING THE NEW
>> AND "60 MINUTES" AS WELL.
NORMAL AND IT CANNOT ONLY PUT
>> IT'S ALMOST BECOMING THE NEW
OUT FALSE INFORMATION BUT CAN
NORMAL AND IT CANNOT ONLY PUT
AFFECT THE STOCK MARKET.
OUT FALSE INFORMATION BUT CAN
>> WHAT ARE THE CONSEQUENCES?
AFFECT THE STOCK MARKET.
ARE ARE WE SEEING TO CURTAIL
>> WHAT ARE THE CONSEQUENCES?
THIS PROBLEM?
ARE ARE WE SEEING TO CURTAIL
>> THIS GOES TO THE POWER OF
THIS PROBLEM?
SOCIAL MEDIA?
>> THIS GOES TO THE POWER OF
WE NEED TIGHTER PASSWORD
SOCIAL MEDIA?
RESTRICTIONS.
WE NEED TIGHTER PASSWORD
A LOT OF SITES HAVE THINGS
RESTRICTIONS.
CALLED TWO STEP VERIFICATION.
A LOT OF SITES HAVE THINGS
TWITTER DOES
CALLED TWO STEP VERIFICATION.
TWO-STEP VERIFICATION MEANS YOU
TWITTER DOES
HAVE TO GET A PASSED FOR FROM
TWO-STEP VERIFICATION MEANS YOU
YOUR -- PASS WORD FROM A
HAVE TO GET A PASSED FOR FROM
DIFFERENT PLACE.
YOUR -- PASS WORD FROM A
>> TWITTER LOOKING INTO ADOPTING
DIFFERENT PLACE.
THAT.
>> TWITTER LOOKING INTO ADOPTING
THIS SAY BLACK EYE FOR TWITTER
THAT.
EVEN THOUGH IT WASN'T THEIR
THIS SAY BLACK EYE FOR TWITTER
FAULT.
EVEN THOUGH IT WASN'T THEIR
THERE WILL BE A HEARING TOMORROW
FAULT.
BECAUSE AS WE MENTIONED THE
THERE WILL BE A HEARING TOMORROW
BILLIONS AND BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
BECAUSE AS WE MENTIONED THE
THAT TRADED ON SOMETIMES FALSE
BILLIONS AND BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
ION ON HACKERS TIGHTEN UP THE S,
THAT TRADED ON SOMETIMES FALSE
HOW IT'S PREVENT READY TRIGERING
ION ON HACKERS TIGHTEN UP THE S,
A RUN ON STOCKS.
HOW IT'S PREVENT READY TRIGERING
>> THIS COMES AS IT SHOWS PEOPLE
A RUN ON STOCKS.
ARE MORE ENGAGED THAN EVER ON
>> THIS COMES AS IT SHOWS PEOPLE
SOCIAL MEDIA ONLINE.
ARE MORE ENGAGED THAN EVER ON
WE HAVE A PEW RESEARCH CENTER
SOCIAL MEDIA ONLINE.
STUDY THAT WE'VE BEEN TAKING A
WE HAVE A PEW RESEARCH CENTER
LOOK AT HERE.
STUDY THAT WE'VE BEEN TAKING A
WHAT DOES IT TELL US HOW ABOUT
LOOK AT HERE.
PEOPLE ENGAGE ON SOCIAL MEDIA?
WHAT DOES IT TELL US HOW ABOUT
>> WE'VE SEEN AN INCREASE FROM
PEOPLE ENGAGE ON SOCIAL MEDIA?
THE LAST POLITICAL ELECTION TO
>> WE'VE SEEN AN INCREASE FROM
THIS ONE AND WE HAVE A GRAPHIC
THE LAST POLITICAL ELECTION TO
TO SHOW HOW IT'S HAPPENING.
THIS ONE AND WE HAVE A GRAPHIC
PEOPLE ARE POAFGHT POLITICAL
TO SHOW HOW IT'S HAPPENING.
ARTICLES ON SOCIAL MEDIA AT A
PEOPLE ARE POAFGHT POLITICAL
GREATER RATE.
ARTICLES ON SOCIAL MEDIA AT A
IT WAS 28% THIS ELECTION AND 11
GREATER RATE.
% IN 2008.
IT WAS 28% THIS ELECTION AND 11
>> AND FRIENDING A POLITICAL
% IN 2008.
CANDIDATE HAS JUMPED FROM FOUR
>> AND FRIENDING A POLITICAL
YEARS AGO TO LAST YEAR.
CANDIDATE HAS JUMPED FROM FOUR
THIS IS GREAT BECAUSE SOCIAL
YEARS AGO TO LAST YEAR.
MEDIA IS SUCH AN EFFICIENT AND
THIS IS GREAT BECAUSE SOCIAL
FUN AND VIBRANT WAY OF PUTTING
MEDIA IS SUCH AN EFFICIENT AND
OUT INFORMATION, BUT AS THAT
FUN AND VIBRANT WAY OF PUTTING
HACK UNDERSCORES AGAIN YOU HAVE
OUT INFORMATION, BUT AS THAT
TO BE WARY WHETHER YOU ARE A
HACK UNDERSCORES AGAIN YOU HAVE
JOURNALIST OR SOMEBODY IN THE
TO BE WARY WHETHER YOU ARE A
STOCK MARKET.
JOURNALIST OR SOMEBODY IN THE
>> YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND AS
STOCK MARKET.
SOCIAL MEDIA IS GROWING AND
>> YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND AS
GROWING SO RAPIDLY THAT THE
SOCIAL MEDIA IS GROWING AND
BACKEND OF ALL OF THESE
GROWING SO RAPIDLY THAT THE
ORGANIZATIONS NEED TO CATCH UP
BACKEND OF ALL OF THESE
AND PUT IN TIGHTER SECURITY
ORGANIZATIONS NEED TO CATCH UP
CONTROLS.
AND PUT IN TIGHTER SECURITY
>> WE'VE SEEN THAT FROM THE
CONTROLS.
MEDIA TO THE STOCK MARKET, YOU
>> WE'VE SEEN THAT FROM THE
KNOW THE WORLD MARKET, AND NOW
MEDIA TO THE STOCK MARKET, YOU
TO POLITICS OF COURSE.
KNOW THE WORLD MARKET, AND NOW
THANK YOU VERY MUCH HOWARD
TO POLITICS OF COURSE.
KURTZ, LAUREN ASHBURN.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH HOWARD
DAILY DOWNLOAD.
KURTZ, LAUREN ASHBURN.
>> THANK YOU.
DAILY DOWNLOAD.
>>
>> THANK YOU.
>> Reporter: YOU CAN GET THE
>>
HOW-TO GUIDE FOR WHAT TO DO IF
>> Reporter: YOU CAN GET THE
YOU ARE HACKED ON OUR WEB SITE.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT HOW
TECHNOLOGY HAS CHANGED THE FOODS
WE EAT.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
>> Sreenivasan: HUMAN EATING
HABITS HAVE CHANGED IN MORE IN
THE PAST CENTURY THAN IN THE
PREVIOUS 10,000 YEARS.
AMERICANS ARE CONASSUMING DOUBLE
THE FAT, 3.5 TIMES MORE SODIUM,
60% MORE SUGAR AND MORE CORN AND
SOYBEANS THAN IN THE YEAR 1909.
ONE SUL BRITT PROCESSED FOOD.
70% OF OUR CALORIES COME FROM
THEM TSMS A TOPIC OF A NEW BOOK
BY MELANIE WARNER CALLED "PAN
DORA'S LUNCHBOX:  HOW PROCESSED
FOOD TOOK OVER THE AMERICAN
MEAL."
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
DEFINE IT.
>> IT'S A TERM THROWN AROUND A
LOT.
I LIKE TO THINK OF SIT PROCESSED
FOOD IS SOMETHING YOU COULD NOT
MAKE AT HOME IN OUR OWN KITCHEN
WITH THE SAME INDPREEDENTS.
PACKAGED FOOD, FAST FOOD AND I
THINK IT'S A GOOD BENCHMARK.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU DID THIS
INTERESTING EXPERIMENT.
YOU WANTED TO SEE HOW PROCESSED
FOOD DEVOLVE AND WHAT THE
SHELFLIFE WAS.
EXPLAIN THIS EXPERIMENT?
>> IT'S SOMETHING I CAME UPON
WHEN I WONDERED ABOUT EXPIRATION
PACKAGES IN THE SUPERMARKET.
I WONDERED WHAT WOULD HAPPEN
AFTER THIS DATE CAME AND WENT,
WOULD THE FOOD GOOD BAD, START
SMELLING?
I STARTED COLLECTING FOOD AND
KEEPING IT IN MANY -- THEN IT
WAS AN APARTMENT -- AND SEE WHAT
HAPPENED.
EVENTUALLY I WOULD OPEN IT AND
IT WOULD BE FINE.
OVER TIME I COLLECTED I BECAME
CURIOUS AND WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF
I TESTED OTHER KINDS OF FOODS,
FAST FOOD, OTHER SUPERMARKET
PRODUCTS, FROZEN MEALS, POP
TARTS, YOU NAME IT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT SHOULD
HAVE BEEN A SMELLY AREA WASN'T
SMELLY.
>> IT WASN'T SMELLY AT ALL.
IT WAS IN MY OFFICE AND I WAS
ABLE TO WORK THERE.
THERE WERE A FEW EXCEPTIONS BUT
ALMOST NONE OF IT MOLDED,
STARTED SMELLING BAD OR
DECOMPOSED.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU SAY THAT
WHILE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY HAS
MADE IT EASIER TO PROCESS FOODS
OUR BODIES HAVE NOT EDEVELOPPED
IN THE SAME WAY.
>> TECHNOLOGY HAS MERGE WITH
FOOD PRODUCTION IN A WAY THAT
FEW OF US REALIZED.
THE WAY OUR BODIES PROCESS FOOD
IS STUCK SOMEWHERE IN THE STONE
AGE WHEN THEY WERE EATING
DIFFERENT FOODS OBVIOUSLY.
THIS CAUSES ENORMOUS PROBLEMS.
THE FOODS WE'RE EATING OUR BOOD
BODIES ARE NOT DESIGNED TO
HANDLE.
IT CAUSES ALL KINDS OF HEALTH
PROBLEMS.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE
SCIENTIFIC DATA THAT SAYS WE
DON'T HAVE THE ENZYMES OR WHAT
HAPPENS?
YOU CAN LOOK INGREDIENTS.
THE EFFECT THAT SUGAR HAS ON OUT
DISASTROUS IF IT'S OVER
CONSUMED.
IT CAUSES BLOOD SUGAR TO SPIKE.
YOU HEAR ABOUT PEOPLE GETTING
INSULIN RESISTANT.
IT MESSES UP THE WHOLE BLOOD
SUGAR DYNAMIC WHEN WE CONSUME
TOO MUCH SUGAR.
YOU CAN TALK ABOUT THINGS LIKE
FATZ AND VEGETABLE OILS AND
WE'RE OVERCONSUMING THOSE AND
IT'S HAVING PROBLEMS FOR
ARTERIES AND VASCULAR SYSTEM AND
OUR HEART.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME OF THE
PRESERVE ACTIVES, THE --
PRESERVATIVES, THE FOOD INDUSTRY
WILL SAY WE NEED THIS SCIENCE TO
FEED EVERYBODY.
>> I WOULD ARGUE THAT THAT IS
NOT THE ONLY WAY WE CAN FEED
PEOPLE AND IT'S NOES BT WAY PEO.
DO WE REALLY WANT THE REST WORLD
ADOPTING OUR DIET OF EATING
PROCESSED FOOD.
OUR HEALTH FAT CIVICS ARE
ABYSMAL.
WE'RE SUPPOSED TO BE A GREAT
COUNTRY AND 37th IN LIFE
EXPECTANCY, GLOBALLY AROUND THE
WORLD.
I JUST DON'T THINK THAT THAT IS
A SOLUTION FOR FEEDING THE REST
OF THE WORLD.
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER HAVING
WRITTEN THIS BOOK AND KNOW BEING
PROCESSED FOODS WHAT ARE YOU
CUTTING OUT?
WHAT ARE YOU INCLUDING?
>> I THINK IT'S -- I WANT TO
STRESS THAT I'M NOT ARGUING FOR
A WORLD WITHOUT ANY PROCESSED
FOOD, ZERO PROCESSED FOOD.
I THINK IT'S A MATTER OF
REBALANCING OUR DIET SO INSTEAD
OF 70% OF OUR FOODS COMING FROM
HIGHLY PROCESSED MAYBE IT'S
SOMETHING LIKE 30% OR 20%,
WHATEVER IS RIGHT FOR AN
INDIVIDUAL.
I DO EAT PROCESSED FOODS.
I SERVE THEM TO MY KIDS.
I'M A WORKING MOM.
I TRY TO HAVE A BALANCE.
WHEN I SERVE OR EAT PROCESSED
FOODS I TRY TO SEEK OUT THE BEST
CHOICES, THE ONES THAT HAVE AS
MANY INGREDIENTS AND ARTIFICIAL
INGREDIENTS, THE LESS PROCESSED
OF THE CHOICES.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR INSTANCE,?
>> I DON'T BUY BOXED MAC AND
CHEESE FOR THE KIDS.
WHY I DO WANT TO FEED THEM
POWDERED AND LIQUID CHEESE.
MAKING IT AT HOME IS EASILY.
I'VE BEEN MORE SKEPTICAL AND
DISCRIMINATING.
>> Sreenivasan: THE BOOK IS
CALLED "PANDORA'S LUNCHBOX."
MELANIE WA
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA RAISED CONCERNS
ABOUT CHEMICAL WEAPONS IN SYRIA,
IN A PHONE CALL WITH RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT PUTIN.
THEY SPOKE HOURS AFTER A BOMB
NARROWLY MISSED KILLING THE
SYRIAN PRIME MINISTER IN
DAMASCUS.
BOMBINGS ACROSS IRAQ KILLED AT
LEAST 36 PEOPLE.
IT WAS THE LATEST IN A WEEK'S
WORTH OF VIOLENCE.
AND PRO BASKETBALL PLAYER JASON
COLLINS ANNOUNCED HE'S GAY,
BECOMING THE FIRST MALE ATHLETE
IN MAJ AOR U.S. SPORTS LEAGUE TO
COME OUT.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, A REMINDER
FROM OUR SCIENCE UNIT: THE
DEADLINE TO SUBMIT YOUR SCIENCE-
INSPIRED RAP VIDEO IS FRIDAY.
FIND MORE INFORMATION ON HOW TO
ENTER AND WIN A SHOUT-OUT FROM
THE WU-TANG CLAN'S GZA ON OUR
HOME PAGE.
AND RUNNERS PAY TRIBUTE TO
VICTIMS OF THE BOSTON BOMBINGS
BY LACING UP AND ORGANIZING
RACES ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
AND OF COURSE IT'S MONDAY, WHICH
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL EXAMINE
ESCALATING SECTARIAN VIOLENCE IN
IRAQ, AND THE CHALLENGES IT
POSES FOR STABILITY IN THE
COUNTRY.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU, AND GOOD NIGHT.